This is a video of the
aftermath of a strike
in the Al-Shati Refugee Camp in Gaza,
according to journalists working for CNN.
The attack came
during intense Israeli bombardment
a bombing Sunday night.
The IDF has not commented
on the incident.
United Nations officials today
said 70% of people in the Gaza
Strip are displaced.
Many living conditions
and living in conditions
a statement called, quote, inhumane.
The secretary general said
the Gaza is becoming
a, quote, graveyard for children.
Israel's ambassador to the U.N.
lashed out at those at the comments
called for the secretary
general's resignation.
Emily Kelly Callahan is a nurse activity
manager for Doctors Without Borders, MSF
She was evacuated
last Wednesday and arrived
back in the US just over the weekend.
First of all, how does it feel to be out?
A lot of people keep asking me that
and I really don't have a good answer.
I obviously have a sense of relief
that I'm home and I'm with my family and
feel safe for the first time in 26 days
and I'm having a really hard time finding
any joy in any of it.
Because me being safe is the result
of having to leave people behind.
People watching
this have seen images from Gaza and
they've seen the hospital images
they've seen the horror of children dead.
Day after day after day after day.
I mean, they've seen all the images
but to actually be there
and to experience
it, you're experiencing all these things
which a camera can never capture.
So can you just talk a little bit about
what stand
when you close your eyes at night,
what is it you think about now?
I think
the answer to that question,
I think I'll start at KITV,
which was we were
we were relocated about five times
over the course of 26 days
due to security concerns.
And one of the places we wound up
was the Communist Training Center.
We call it quits.
That's when people
that evacuated to the South Sea
or in the south.
And then
we went to
below what he calls a line
and there were by the time we left there,
there were 35,000
internally displaced people
living alongside us.
There were children with just massive
burns down their faces, down their necks,
all over their limbs.
And because the hospitals
are so overwhelmed,
they are being discharged immediately
after
and they're being discharged
to these camps
with no access to running water.
There's 50,000 people at that camp now
in four toilets.
They're given 2 hours of water
every 12 hours.
And the toilets for 50,000 people. Yes.
And that's where we were living too.
And they have these fresh open
burns and wounds
and partial amputations
that are just walking around
these conditions.
And parents
are bringing their children
to us, going, Please, can you help?
Please? Can you help?
And we have no supplies
when in situations
where there are
tens of thousands of people
and it is a war
and people don't can't feed their kids.
Things get
strange very fast
and things get tough very, very fast
and people turn on each other.
You saw that up close
at sea.
We were the reason we had to leave
was because we were starting
to be harassed.
People, desperate people
who are losing loved ones right and left
are angry.
And they would point at me and scream
American walking past.
And at that point,
we had no idea what was coming
in the next few days. And
they would
yell things in Hebrew
to see if we were Israeli.
They accused our national staff of either
being traitors or
said, you're
you're pretending to be Arab.
We know that.
You're just pretending to be Arab.
Stop lying to us
and our staff had to defend themselves.
And we said to them over and over again,
you don't have to stay.
We understand if you want to leave us.
And they said, you are family, too,
and we're not going anywhere.
Your staff,
the Palestinians
who worked for MSF,
for Doctors
Without Borders,
we're concerned about your safety.
We would have died within a week
without them.
They they are the only reason
we are alive.
It's incredible that this took so long
to get Americans sick.
People start to move through
that Rafah border crossing.
It's it's inexplicable.
And we were desperate.
We we did a calorie
count at one point
based on our supplies
and figured out that
if all of us there's 50
people with us
living in a parking lot now,
only eight 700 calories a day,
if that's all we had.
We had two days of food left
and that's it.
And our national staff took off.
We had no cell service at that point.
So we had no idea
what had happened to them.
There's bombs going off all around us
because there's no safe place in Gaza,
even getting through that Rafah
border crossing. What was that like?
They didn't leave our side for a second.
You're the national staff
because they feared for your safety,
even at the border crossing,
they made sure they were standing
between us and desperate people.
They made sure that they were talking
to every official
that they could find, trying to push us
through, trying to get us on the bus,
trying to get us out.
And we're sitting there
and we're
watching these incredible men
who have sacrificed everything
for us,
who have sacrificed time
with their families,
their own physical safety,
their own water supply.
They were giving to us.
And we're watching them fight
to get us across the border
knowing that
we were not bringing them with us.
And they didn't they didn't waiver.
Abraham was right in the front
with our passports, fighting
so hard to get us on.
And we get to Irish that night and find
out his parents are dead.
They were
losing family members and friends.
You said if
if it wasn't for your national staff,
you think you would have been killed
by people who were just desperate?
We either would have starved to death
or run out of water.
They were the ones that negotiated
all of that.
They Gaza is a small city,
so everyone knows everyone.
And they would call in favors
and call their friends and say,
who do you know that has food?
Who do you know that's open?
Where can we get this?
And they would drive all over the place
to find water.
And when we ran out of bottled
water in Gaza,
they were the ones that were able
to figure out
that the water truck was coming here
at these times.
And, oh, I know
this guy has a grocery store
and they still have power.
Sometimes I think I can
probably get something from them.
Like when I say
we would have starved to death
without them. I'm I'm not exaggerating
And in the
moments of absolute
desperation of civilians,
they were steadfast and calm
and just talked to them and said,
these people are also
in the same boat that you are.
They have no supplies.
They also have no food and water.
They are also sleeping
outside on the concrete
and did it in such a
beautiful way that they were able
to talk them down with love and kindness.
There was no violence in their heart
and it calmed everyone
around them down as well.
Would you go back to Gaza?
In a heartbeat?
In an absolute heartbeat.
My heart is in Gaza.
It will stay in Gaza.
The Palestinian people
that I worked
with both our national staff
in the office
as well as my staff at Indonesia
Hospital were some of the most incredible
people I've ever met in my life.
Whenever a thing
went off
and we got the notice to move
south of Wadi, Gaza,
I was texting my
my nurses at Indonesia Hospital
and I said,
we we lost a nurse weekend one.
He was killed when the ambulance outside
the hospital was blown up
and I was texting them
when we got the evacuation orders
and I said, Did any of you move south?
Did any of you get out
or any of you coming down this way?
And the only answer I got was,
this is our community.
This is our family,
these are our friends.
If they're going to kill us,
we're going to die
saving as many people as we can.
And I said, If I can ever
have an ounce of
the heart
that you have, I will
I will die a happy person.
They were incredible.
I would like to send out a reminder
that there are civilians seeking
shelter there
and that my doctors and nurses
didn't leave out of loyalty
to their community.
And I know that there is an idea
being pushed right now
that anyone that stayed
behind
is going to be considered
some kind of a threat.
And I want to remind people
that the people
that stayed behind our heroes,
the people that stayed behind,
are they know they're going to die
and they're choosing to stay behind
anyway.
We're trying our doctors, nurses
in the hospital.
I wake up every morning
and I send out a text message and I ask
Are you alive?
And every night before I go to sleep,
I send another message and
says, Are you alive?
Well, Kelly,
thank you so much for your time.
Thank you.